---
author: Nick
date: 2013-06-14 16:26
layout: single
title: Magical Thinking
---
A few days before I left for this trip, my sister had me and some of our close
friends over for a small goodbye dinner. My friend Brian gave me a book called
*Magical Thinking*, figuring it might provide some entertainment during
downtime. One of my goals for the trip was to spend more time reading, so it was
a good gift. As it happened though, my friend Laura had just a day earlier given
me her father's unused Kindle and now the thought of having a physical book to
carry was slightly less appealing. It was an overnight change for me: I liked
the habit of holding a book with pages, feeling its actuality while reading and
the satisfaction of turning each page to the last &mdash; then I got the Kindle.
Suddenly I had access to hundreds of books that could fit all at once in the
dimensions of one page and weighed less than a single volume. For a trip like
this, it was perfect; who needs all that paper and ink anyway?

I brought the book along. Because it weighed so much, it was with some
hesitation that I packed *Magical Thinking* at the bottom of my miscellaneous
bag. I decided that I should read it, at the very least to show that I
appreciated the gift. I placed it (appreciatively) under a bag of muesli, next
to some bananas.

A month into the trip I hadn't taken it out from the bottom of the bag. The
cover had taken on a nice collection of stains, and the edges of the pages were
folded and dirt covered. The book might've been in better condition had it
fallen off the back of a truck at high speed.

I *had* read several books on the Kindle, and doing so made it all the more
difficult to return to an archaic printed page. The Kindle was *interactive*: I
could search through the book and see side by side all occurrences of a phrase,
or I could quickly jump to and from footnotes and between chapters. Best of all,
I could pull up the definition and origin of any word through the built in
dictionary.

Somewhere between Italy and Switzerland I decided the weight of carrying a real
book was too much to endure so long as it stayed unread. I picked it out from
the bottom of the bag and, moving it to the top of my quick access bag, started
reading.

The book is a collection of short stories taken from the author's life. Most are
humorous and a few hit at some bigger concepts. Each chapter is a separate essay
detailing some interesting event, usually related to the author's past
relationships which were numerous and typically quite provocative. It was light
reading and had topped the *New York Times* bestseller list.

I did enjoy the author's writing style. The stories were told candidly and with
playful exaggeration. Details were visualized through clever similes. Sentences
and paragraphs were short, reflecting the stream-of-consciousness style.
Everything was in the first person.

I decided it would work for this blog as well. Instead of writing about each day
(which usually comes down to finding as many synonyms for "ride", "pedal", and
"climb" as possible), it would be much more interesting to write short stories
about the different situations we encounter on a bike.

I can't say how often I'll get a story up. It's been about five countries since
the last update. But having read *Magical Thinking*, I'm inspired to write a bit
more casually, which might mean the stories will come easier.

And that inspiration might nearly justify carrying the book across a continent.
