---
author: Nick
date: 2013-05-15 23:54
layout: single
title: Hello Marseille
---
There never was a schedule for this trip, but somehow we've fallen behind it.
Please excuse the lack of updates &mdash; rest assured that the trip has
continued to be an excellent experience and that the site has not been
forgotten. It's simply a matter of finding time to write while crossing paths
with internet; on bike, the juncture is not as easily found as one would like.
Tonight I wanted to put up a quick update before later filling in the details
for the previous few weeks (!) of travel. Future updates will probably follow a
  similar format: a short update of our location and the day's story.

After several days delay, we've finally reached [Marseille][1], a coastal city
in southeastern France. The city seemed forever in the distance, as we had
planned to be here Monday evening (it's now Wednesday). It happened that we
spent an afternoon in Montpellier and then took our time in Saint Gilles and
Arles the next day. Having raced through many of the towns in Spain, we've
learned to slow down in France. The payoff of spending even a few hours in each
place has been incredible.

Tomorrow we'll look for ferry tickets to Corsica, a midpoint on the way to
Italy. From there we plan to ride up toward Switzerland, then back across France
to Paris, eventually making our way north through Germany into Denmark to catch
another ferry to the U.K. We've covered about 1,700km so far and are closing in
on 100 hours on the bikes. Most important, we're meeting many friendly people
and are spending more time in each place &mdash; I'm excited for what's here,
and can't wait for what's ahead.

[1]: https://maps.google.com/maps?q=Marseille,+France
