---
author: Nick
date: 2013-04-11 22:50
layout: single
title: One week in Spain
---
Sam's family lives in [Nerja][1], a small city on the southern coast of Spain.
The buildings here are small and tightly packed with white-washed concrete walls
and clay-tile roofs. Sam's father, David, keeps a garden in the entryway to the
house where he grows avocados, lemons, oranges, peppers, onions, garlic,
pumpkins: just about everything, really. Downtown, the handful of streets are
lined with cafés, bookstores, clothing stores, and travel agencies. During the
morning and afternoon most places appear to be nearly empty: it's not tourist
season yet and Spain tends to wake up a bit late anyway.

The morning of our first full day in Spain, Sam and I hiked up the small
mountain behind his house. It was only an hour climb, but by the time we reached
the top I was happy to take a rest. Maybe I should have prepared for this trip
after all. We looked out over the neighborhood and Sam pointed out his old
school, a local mine, an old aqueduct, and other places of interest. You could
see straight out over the Mediterranean. Not a bad place to spend a few days!

That afternoon, we took the bikes out of their boxes and began preparing them
for the trip. We pumped up the tires, bolted on the fenders and racks, and
  adjusted the brakes and dérailleurs. I had bought a general maintenance book
  called *Zinn and the Art of Road Bike Maintenance* awhile back, and we
  consulted it whenever we couldn't figure something out on our own. I wanted to
  know how to adjust and how to fix everything before heading out on the trip.
  It was several hours work and after sunset before we were satisfied. In the
  dark, we took a quick ride through the neighborhood to test everything out
  &mdash; I had trouble clipping into the pedals and my brakes squealed going
  downhill, so I made some more adjustments the next day.


## Riding

On Saturday we took our first ride, headed West towards Torre del Mar. The road
was mostly flat this direction, so we were able to cruise along the coast for a
few hours with no trouble. On Sunday I rode alone since Sam was feeling sick. It
was great to just head out and follow the coastline, rolling with the curves of
the road. I was really enjoying the simple act of riding a bike.

Our first hill climbing challenge came when we went to visit family friends
Daniel and Angelica. Although they lived only about 15 kilometers away, it was
nearly all uphill and the last two or three kilometers were dirt roads. By the
time we reached their place we were both out of breath and ready for a good
rest. Angelica happily provided pistachios (I quickly learned to take off the
shell before eating), then milk and cookies (which were delicious!). Since
Daniel speaks (at least) five languages we all had a lot of fun bouncing between
English, Spanish, and German. After a little while we'd recovered from the climb
and had to head back for dinner, so we said our goodbyes and carefully rolled
down the rocky trail back home.

Wednesday we really tested ourselves by riding up to Frigiliana, the next city
over from Nerja. Once again, it was all uphill. We left in the early afternoon,
and by midday it was really hot. We crawled along at 7-10km/h in our lowest
gears.  After what must've been an hour, we finally made it to the center of
town: narrow cobblestone roads turned into open plazas, looking out over the
hills to the sea.

![View from Frigiliana](/img/2013/04/10/frigiliana.jpg)

Sam remembered having been to a higher point as a kid, so we asked some older
men where we should go. They told us about a goat path that went to the top, so
we followed that for another few kilometers, straining all the way.  Finally at
the end of the road, I stepped off my bike ready for a break. Nope.  Sam found a
hiking trail, so we climbed a bit further on foot.  That's were we found a pair
of donkeys munching idly on some grass. I have no idea how they got up there! It
made for an obvious lesson to always go the extra mile &mdash; you never know
what's around the corner!

![The donkey](/img/2013/04/10/el-burro-2.jpg)

Riding down was a totally different experience. The goat path was half paved,
half gravel, so the bikes bounced and twisted all over the place. Once we made
it to the paved road we had to brake so often our hands were cramping. Even with
braking, we hit our highest speed: 64 km/h (about 40mph). It was a lot of fun,
but also pretty unnerving when the front wheel started shimmying in the wind.


## Food

Besides riding, we've also had a good time eating some typical Spanish foods.
Breakfast is normally a small serving, which for us has usually been cereal or
fruit. A Napolitana is also common, which is basically a croissant filled with
chocolate. Then we have a coffee (un Café con Leche), maybe with a Magdalena (a
cross between a cupcake and a muffin).

The main meal of the day happens around 3:00 once the whole family is home.
Sam's mother and sister, Sheryl and Elizabeth, have really taken care of us.
We've had patatas con juevos (sunny-side-up eggs with potatoes), tacos, salmon,
and pepitos (steak sandwiches); Israeli, Russian, and Spanish salad; and today
we had Paella with fresh lemons from the garden.

![Paella](/img/2013/04/10/paella.jpg)

There are usually fresh olives too (I like "Sevillana"s best, but the "almibar"
ones aren't bad either). After the meal we usually have a Natilla, which is like
a pudding but tastes like vanilla ice cream.

The rest of the day is typically self-serve; normally I'll have some fruit as a
snack, and for dinner either a bocadillo (a sandwich) or just some toast and
jam. I didn't know it, but bread is a big part of Spanish culture, so there's
always a fresh loaf available!

All in all, it's been a pretty good first week.

[1]: https://maps.google.com/maps?q=Nerja,+Spain
