---
author: Nick
date: 2013-04-24 13:00
layout: single
title: Six days on a bike
---
Our first destination of the trip was to visit Sam's grandparents in Cartagena,
a medium-sized city about 450km from our starting point. We hoped that the
distance would serve as a reasonable introduction to cycle touring, after which
we could decide what changes we might need to make before continuing on for the
remainder of the journey. We departed in the late afternoon on the 19th and
arrived six days later on the 24th. A week is a bit much for that distance,
but in that time we went through a variety of experiences: we'd rolled along the
coast, struggled up mountains, and battled headwinds; we'd set up camp in a
valley beside a highway, near a gravel road leading to a factory, and in the
grass behind old ruins; we'd gotten lost, taken a fall, repaired a flat tire,
and had a wheel true; we'd met other tourers, helpful shop owners, and friendly
baristas. We'd been introduced to life on a bike, and, while we were excited to
continue, we also welcomed the comfort of home with Sam's grandparents.

## Nerja to Salobreña
The trip started on familiar roads, primarily the N340; we'd been riding
unloaded for a week, and had already ridden the initial ~30km of the route a few
times. The road leaving Nerja closely follows the coast, winding up and down
with the mountains as they slope along into the sea. Long climbs with
switchbacks gave way to rocky views of the beach and surf, then (thankfully) the
descent. As a symbol of our departure we pushed our bikes across a sandy beach
(no small feat) and dipped our front wheels into the Mediterranean. That evening
we decided to stay at a campground to ease our way into the trip; we stayed at
Don Cactus, just outside the city of Salobreña. Having a hot shower the next
morning justified the cost. As we left, the desk worker gave us an avocado to
celebrate the campground's 25th year in business &mdash; unfortunately that
avocado was hard as a rock and never seemed to ripen; we eventually left it in
Cartagena.

## Salobreña to Vicar
Our second day continued along more coastal roads and riding felt much the same.
We wanted to reach the city of Vicar by the end of the day to buy a new camping
stove &mdash; the one I had brought from the States had a different mount than
the gas canisters that were available (I have one that screws on, but they're
all clip on here). After riding all morning, we stopped for lunch beside the
ruins of an old tower (a common sight in Spain). We relaxed for a bit watching a
trail of ants pass by; I wish there were more roads like that one: cars were
rare, hills were manageable, and the views were great. Later that evening we
reached the Decathlon in Vicar and found the stove we needed (they happened to
also have screw on canisters, so we bought both). As the sun set we followed an
off road that led us to our first campsite, in the valley of a mountain a few
kilometers from the highway. We were woken up in the morning by a man out
walking his dog; the dog barked playfully in our direction with the man shouting
"Ven aqui, tonto!" ("Come here, silly!"). After packing our gear, we pushed the
bikes back up to the road and set out once again.

## Vicar to Nijar, then Carboneras
Now we were on the open road, heading however we chose to Cartagena. We left our
campsite late in the morning, so it was hot as we pedaled along the road through
the midday sun. After two days of riding loaded, my legs (and sitbones) were
feeling better than I expected. Before long we'd reached Almeria, the largest
city on our route before Cartagena. Somewhere inside we missed a turn, and wound
up heading too far East toward Cabo de Gata. We continued riding in a soft
headwind along flat roads. Flat roads mean no rest, so even a slight headwind
wears you down pretty fast. After a short while we stopped for lunch by the side
of the road and took another look at the map. A few hot hours later we climbed
uphill to Nijar where we stopped, hoping to fill up on water.

The Spainish mediodia caught us off guard again, and we found out that all the
shops were closed for the afternoon. While we waited, we spent some time
cleaning and adjusting the bikes. When the stores finally opened we bought the
water we needed and continued a few kilometers more before finding another wild
campsite on the way to Carboneras. To be out of sight of the nearby factory, we
carried the bags and bikes down a slope and under some trees. For dinner we used
the stove for the first time and made a bag of tortellini; it was the most
delicious plain tortellini I've ever had. When we rode out the next day, we
waved good morning to the dump trucks driving by.

## Carboneras to Vera
After a few kilometers we stopped at a grocery store in Carboneras to pick up
some fruit. While packing our things, another cyclist stopped and asked us about
our trip, offering encouragement and explaining that he'd done a small trip
years back. It was just a brief encounter, but I was happy he'd reached out.

We rode out of town along the beach front and soon found ourselves climbing some
of our first mountains. The road swept in and out along the ridges while we
pushed uphill in our lowest gears. A woman in a car passing the other direction
applauded our efforts, and a handful of cyclists out for a ride smiled while they
passed us by. We continued snaking our way around curve after curve for nearly
an hour before finally reaching the top where we promptly stopped for a snack
(nisperros and Oaties).

![A view of the road climbing up out of
Carboneras](/img/2013/04/22/mountain-climb.jpg)

After resting, we sped down the back side until we saw that cars were coming
toward us with their wipers on. We stopped to put on our rain gear then
continued riding down through a light shower.

A few hours riding brought us to Vera, where we stopped in a park for lunch.
Along the way into the city I'd noticed that my front wheel was out of
alignment, causing my brakes to rub even while open. I tried my hand at
adjusting the spokes but eventually decided it was a better idea to bring it
into a shop. The owners of the shop we found were friendly and accommodating: the
mechanic wasn't available for another hour, so they let us leave the bikes in
the store while we passed time having an espresso at the café down the road. By
the time the wheel was trued we needed to find camp, but there wasn't enough time to
get out of the city. We rode to a nearby campground in Palomares and had a
delicious bocadillo before turning in for the night. The repair had taken the
better part of the day, leaving us behind schedule.

## Vera to Aguilas and Mazarrón
To make up for the lost time, we tried starting off earlier in the morning.
Instead, my back tire went flat. I'd already patched that tube in the past (and
the hole was now at the base of the valve), so I grabbed a new tube and after a
bit we were on the road again. By noon we were having lunch in a park in
Aguilas, but we didn't stay to explore the city. We did stop at another
Decathlon, where I bought a thermarest and pillow &mdash; I usually don't bother
with such comforts when camping, but I don't usually go camping for more than a
weekend; after five days of sleeping on rocky Spanish dirt, I gave in.

Leaving Aguilas the road turned inland a bit and we found ourselves riding
beside farmland and plastic covered greenhouses. The landscape reminded me of
New Mexico: arid dirt with wide open skies.

![Farmland in Southern Spain](/img/2013/04/23/farmland.jpg)

Against our intentions, we found ourselves riding again through the heat of the
day. While passing next to a field, I began shifting lower and lower. The road
appeared level; it felt more like the tires were sticking to the pavement than
like climbing a hill. We struggled on for a bit before finally pulling off into
the shade of a church to catch our breah. Looking back along the road, we saw
that there was in fact a steady, gradual incline. We'd been riding in the
hottest part of the day, uphill for several kilometers: not fun. We decided to
wait until later in the day before continuing.

When we did set out again, it was toward the largest mountains yet. With fresh
legs from the afternoon's break we climbed slowly, back and forth along yet
another set of switchbacks. The sun was still shining brightly, and we had to
stop for short water breaks twice during the long climb. The view from the top
was excellent, and well earned. Then it was another speedy, cold ride down the
shadowed side of the mountain and toward the city of Mazarrón. We found another
place to wild camp behind some ruins just outside the city; the site was the
best yet; even better was knowing that it was a short distance more to
Cartagena.

![Mazarrón campsite](/img/2013/04/23/mazarron-campsite.jpg)

## Mazarrón to Cartagena
With just 40km to go, we opted to skip entering the city and kept our tires on
the main road. We were low on water, but figured the distance was small enough
that it wouldn't matter. As the road turned from East to North, we discovered
that the 40km weren't going to be easy. We pedaled into a *strong* headwind,
cranking away in low gears. There was another small set of mountains between
Mazarrón and Cartagena, so it was uphill and in the wind most of the way. While
crossing the top of the hill, the wind gusted strong enough to blow us back. It
was the type of wind that would knock you sideways then shove you backwards.
Even after crossing the top, we pedalled most of the way downhill just to keep
the wind from stopping us.

Finally, after some three hours of riding, Sam's grandmother greeted us with
open arms and plates of food. It was just the welcome we needed after a week on
the road.

![Sam with his grandparents](/img/2013/04/28/abuelos.jpg)
